In the previous
lesson, we looked at some of the
practical details, some common source systems you'll work with as
a data engineer. In the labs, you got some
practice manipulating data in relational
and no SQL databases, as well as in object storage. When it comes to
actually connecting to source systems and your
work as a data engineer, it's relatively
common to run into unforeseen issues that block you from accessing the data
you're interested in. These issues can be due
to things like having improper identity and access management
or IM definitions, broken networking
configurations, or even just having the wrong
set of access credentials. These might at first sound like relatively trivial issues, but in my own experience, running into these problems happens all the time
in data engineering, and they can be major
blockers if you don't know how to debug and
solve them properly. In fact, I think that solving
issues like these are a core skill for data engineers that when I interview
new data engineers, I like to take a
working data pipeline that can connect to the
intended source systems, and maybe break some of the IM or networking configurations, and then ask the candidate
to solve the problems. This shows me how well
prepared they are to troubleshoot these
issues on the job. In this lesson, I'll start
by going over some of the details of how you connect to different
source systems. I'll demonstrate this in AWS. But the principles
we'll be looking at also apply to other
Cloud platforms. In the context of IAM
roles and permissions, we'll look at the importance
of security in the Cloud, where IAM is the key to controlling and
managing access to Cloud based data sources and other components within
your data pipelines. Finally, we'll get
into networking. I'll start you off with
a high level overview, and then Morgan will
walk you through the details of
networking on AWS, including VPCs and subnets, gateways, routing,
security groups, and more. So in this lesson, you'll
build on your knowledge of basic networking concepts that we looked at in the
previous course. After this lesson, you'll
put your skills to the test. Just like I do with data engineering candidates
in the interviewing process, I've set up a challenge for
you in the next lab exercise. There you'll find a data
pipeline that should look familiar from one
of the previous labs, but now I've broken it. In that lab exercise, you'll get a taste of
what it's like to work as a data engineer tasked with connecting to a source
system on the Cloud. I promise you, this won't
be like your standard hello world exercise where
everything works as expected. Set, you'll be thrown into a scenario where just
like in the rural world, things don't work
the way you'd hoped. Your job will be to troubleshoot and figure out the cause of the problem and then solve it to connect to the data
sources you need. Join me in the next video, where I'll give you a
high level overview of ways to connect
the source systems.