In the first course of the specialization,
we did some requirements gathering based on conversations we had
with various stakeholders. Including a data scientist, the chief data
officer, a product marketing manager, and a software engineer at
a fictitious e-commerce company. Through these conversations,
you learned from the chief data officer that the company aims to
expand to new markets and increase retention with
existing customers. And you worked with these stakeholders
to set up a data pipeline for a recommender system. Here we're going to build on that set of
conversations and talk with a marketing analyst that's been tasked with looking
for insights and product sales trends. And so in this video,
I'll play the data engineer and my friend Colleen will play
the marketing analyst. Let's jump in. Colleen number four, good to meet you. >> Good to meet you too. >> Hi, I'm Joe, new data engineer and looking forward to hearing more
about what you're working on. >> Yeah, absolutely,
I'm really excited to be working with you. So what I'm working on is trying to
understand what kind of external factors might be signals that we could connect
to customers purchasing habits and so on the marketing team, we have been
brainstorming on what kind of things these might be, and we've come up with a few
ideas we'd like to explore further. >> That sounds cool,
why don't you tell me more about that? >> Sure thing. So we were thinking that perhaps,
broadly speaking, how someone is feeling,
like happy or sad, excited or relaxed might affect their behavior
when it comes to shopping online. Of course, we have no way of knowing
exactly how our customers are feeling on any given day, but
we thought we could explore some ideas. In particular, we would like to look into
what kind of music people are listening to across the various regions
where we sell our products and then comparing those with product sales. I see.
So you're thinking you would like to pull
in public data from some external sources to get information on
the music people are listening to. >> Yes, exactly. So I've been looking into it and it looks like Spotify has a public API
where we could pull data on what musical artists are trending in different regions
and people's listening trends over time. Does that sound like something you
could potentially help us with? >> For sure I'm a big Nickelback fan,
so I definitely like music a lot. >> Nice, must be. >> Yeah, yeah, so I'll just need to
have a closer look at the Spotify API. And once I figure out the details, maybe
we could talk through exactly what kind of information you would like to pull in and
how you'd like that served up. >> Okay, yeah, that sounds fantastic. Let me know if there's anything
I can help with in the meantime, and I'll look forward to talking more with
you once we have the details sorted out. All right, that's great, thank you. All right, so that was an example of
a conversation with a marketing analyst where they describe their data needs for
a project. Focus on pulling in data from a public API
that they would like to analyze alongside product sales data. Now, I'll acknowledge, and
maybe you're thinking this as well, that studying regional trends in what kind
of music people are listening to might not sound like a particularly
brilliant approach to marketing. And you're probably right, but believe me,
I've seen all kinds of crazy stuff when it comes to what kind of data different
stakeholders want to get their hands on. So the point here is not to dwell on
whether this seems like a worthy endeavor, but instead to identify
the key requirements for the system you'll need to build. In this case, there is certainly more
information required to know exactly what the best approach will be when it comes to
building out the entire data pipeline for this project. But for the moment, we're going to
stay focused on the ingestion piece. The key things you'll learn here are that
you're going to need to ingest data from a third party API. You'll eventually need to consider other
details like how you're ultimately going to store and
serve the data to the analyst, and this will depend on
what the analyst needs. In general,
when ingesting data from an API, you'll be looking at some kind
of batch ingestion process, but exactly how that looks will depend
on what you aim to do with the data. In the next video, we'll take a closer
look at the tradeoffs between the popular batch data processing
paradigms of extract, transform, load or ETL versus extract, load, transform or
ELT as relate to your ingestion of data. And after that,
we'll take a look at connecting to and ingesting data from a REST API. I'll see you in the next video.