Welcome to the fourth and
final week of this course. This week is all
about orchestration. But really,
orchestration is closely intertwined with many of the concepts you've
already been exploring. In the previous weeks materials, we focused on the
DataOps pillars of automation and observability
and monitoring. You got some practice using the infrastructures code
framework, Terraform, and you set up data quality
checks and monitoring of your data pipelines using great expectations
in CloudWatch. Orchestration, you'll be doing more work within each of
these areas of DataOps. You'll automate
individual tasks in your data pipeline and
move from the concept of infrastructure as code
to the concept of pipelines as code using the Airflow
orchestration platform. With airflow, you'll build in data quality checks and
additional monitoring as well. You could say that
orchestration is really a part of DataOps
in the sense that orchestration has
everything to do with at least two of the three
key pillars of DataOps. Orchestration is also closely related to other
undercurrents of the data engineering
life cycle like data management and
software engineering. However, when my co
author Mott House and I were thinking about the
Data Engineering Lifecycle, we decided that orchestration
was important enough to be called out as a
separate undercurrent of the Data
Engineering Lifecycle. It is given how central it is to your work as a data engineer. This week, we're going
to take what you learned about DataOps in the previous week
and build on it. We'll start by taking a
look at how pipelines were set up before
orchestration tools existed. Then we'll cover the evolution of orchestration
tools that led us to where we are today and where that evolution might
lead to in the future. After that, we'll dig into the details of
orchestration and discuss at a basic level how to implement orchestration
in your data pipelines. There are a number of different orchestration tools
on the market today, and many of the
concepts we'll be covering this week
are tool agnostic. However, the Number 1 tool being used in industry
today is Airflow. So after we get
through the basics, we're going to focus on the details of
orchestration using Airflow since that's what you're
most likely going to be using on the job today
as a data engineer. Airflow is also what you'll
be using in this week's lab. Join me in the next
video to get started.