Orchestration has long been a key capability for
data processing. But until the past decade or so, orchestration was really only accessible to the
largest companies. And this is because
open source or managed orchestration
tools did not exist yet, and it was complicated and expensive to build your
own in house solutions. In the late 2000s,
things began to change. Facebook developed a tool called Data Swarm for internal use, which they still use today. Another tool called Apache Oozie became extremely
popular in the 2010s. But it's designed to work
within a Hadoop cluster and was more difficult to use in a more heterogeneous
environment. Inspired by these earlier
tools, particularly Data Swarm, Airbnb introduced
Airflow in 2014, which has become the industry standard orchestration tool. Today, there are many other orchestration tools
under development and the landscape of
orchestration will no doubt continue to
evolve in the future. Now throughout these courses
we have for the most part, actively avoided discussing
any particular tool or technology too extensively. Instead, I have been aiming
to focus on the skills and the knowledge that will
be broadly applicable no matter where you work
as a data engineer. In certain cases, however, I'm going to make an exception
for a tool or technology that you will very likely use in your job as
a data engineer. And one such tool is Airflow. Right now when it comes
to orchestration, more teams are using Airflow
than any other tool, and so it's a skill set that
recruiters are looking for. With that being said, Airflow is not without its shortcomings, and I'm excited about some of the other newer
open source tools that are emerging in the
orchestration space. And so I'll mention
a few of those too. Airflow was developed by Maxime Beauchemin and other
collaborators at Airbnb. They were primarily
interested in serving their own internal data
orchestration needs. However, from the
very beginning, they built Airflow as a noncommercial
open source project with the vision that the
tools they were developing to serve Airbnb's
internal needs would also be useful to other teams
solving similar challenges. The framework quickly grew significant mind share
outside of Airbnb becoming an Apache incubator project in 2016 and a full Apache
sponsored project in 2019. Today, Airflow offers many advantages as an
orchestration platform, largely because of
its dominant position in the open source marketplace. Airflow is written in Python, making it accessible to almost
any use case imaginable. Beyond that, the Airflow open source project is
very active with a high rate of commits and a quick response time for
bugs and security issues. As of many open source
tools and data engineering, Airflow is also available as a managed service through
a number of vendors, including AWS, GCP, and astronomer.io for anyone who is looking for more
comprehensive support. With all that being
said, Airflow is certainly not the only
orchestration tool out there. In terms of things
like scalability, ensuring data integrity, and streaming pipelines,
Airflow either does not solve for these issues or there are significant
room for improvement. Many other interesting open source orchestration
projects exist, such as Luigi and Conductor, and newer tools like Prefect, Dagster, and Mage have been getting traction as
they aim to mimic the best elements of
Airflows core design while improving on
it in key areas. For example, Prefect provides more scalable orchestration
solutions in Airflow, while Dagster certain Mage provide built in
capabilities for data quality testing and data transformations
among other things. Still other tools are
focused on providing better orchestration support
for streaming pipelines. I think it's entirely
possible that one or more of these newer orchestration
tools will become widely used in the coming years as alternatives to Airflow. It's also possible that one of these alternative
tools could serve your needs better depending on what pipelines
you're setting up. With that being said,
my recommendation is to learn Airflow for now because Airflow is what many people
are using today, but also keep learning about
other tools and keep up on new developments in the
field of orchestration so you can stay current as
things continue to evolve. Join me in the next
video to dive into the details of
orchestration and practice.