Congratulations on reaching the last week of this program. Throughout this course,
you've learned how to model your data for analytics and
machine learning use cases, and what tools and
technical considerations you should take into account
when transforming your data. In this final week, we
will take a look at serving data for various analytics and machine
learning use cases. For example, with a business
analytics use case, you might be serving data from a data warehouse or a data lake. Then your end users can use that data to create
dashboards or reports, or perform ad hoc analysis. You could also serve data
for operational analytics, where your end users monitor immediate trends in the data
to inform immediate action. With operational analytics,
you need to make sure that you serve data
within the required latency. Finally, you could serve
data for embedded analytics, where your end users feed
the data to a client facing, data product, or dashboard. When it comes to serving data for machine learning
applications which are becoming widely adopted in all
types of companies, you will likely work with a data scientist or machine
learning engineer to acquire, transform, and deliver
the data necessary for model training in a format suitable for the
target application. Earlier in the
course, we looked at some examples of serving data to build a customer churn model, as well as a
recommendation system. Additionally, you
could incorporate business definitions
and data logic through a semantic layer that you build after you
model your data. In this semantic layer, you
can document definitions, such as the meaning
of an active user, and derive business
metrics, such as revenue, to create a common language
for the data you serve. You can also serve
your data as a table, a view, or a materialized view. We'll go through all these
concepts later in the week, and you'll get a lot of practice creating views using
dbt in the first lab. After we go through the
details of serving data, I'll give you a summary of the data engineering concepts you learned in this program, revisiting the framework of how to think like
a data engineer, as well as all the stages and undercurrents of the data
engineering life cycle. Finally, you'll see how all these concepts come
together in the capstone lab. Join me in the next video to go through the
different ways of serving data for analytics and machine learning use cases.