Like I said in the previous video, the first step in any data engineering
project is requirements gathering to give you a taste of what the step
could look like on the job. Throughout these courses, we'll be featuring a number of
conversations between myself and the role of data engineer talking
to different stakeholders. The point of these simulated conversations
is to show you how I might go about the requirements gathering process,
for some example, data systems. And so in this video, I'm going to
demonstrate what a conversation might look like between you, actually me,
in this case, the data engineer. And a key stakeholder, in this case,
my friend Colleen, who will play the data scientist that needs your help getting
the data they need for their work. In real life Colleen is a data
professional with lots of experience having stakeholder
conversations in her own work. And so she's going to help me with a
number of these stakeholder conversations throughout these courses. But before we jump into this one, I'll
just take a moment to introduce you to Colleen, and then we'll get
started with the conversation. How's it going, Colleen? >> Good, how are you? >> Good, thank you. So today we're going to be
talking with Colleen Foch. She is a senior technical manager. And I guess that means that you're
a data scientist, marketing analyst and a software engineer. >> Just all of them? >> Yeah, what do you actually do? >> Yeah, so I specifically work
with our marketing team and so I handle a lot of our
marketing technologies work. So day to day I'm in Snowflake a lot,
DBT building out data models, so doing a lot of data engineering. So your book has helped me, a son. Thank you.
>> Awesome, and in a past life, you also did some interesting stuff. >> Yeah, I was in athletics for
a really long time, swam growing up, went to Cal Berkeley,
won the national championship or two, American record holding relay,
and then decided to do CrossFit. Did that professionally for a few years, went to the CrossFit Games
individually in team. And then did bobsledding for a few years,
made the US national team, and then, as the natural progression goes,
went into data after that. >> I literally did the same
thing in my career. >> That's how we met. Yeah, joking. >> Well, awesome. So we're going to be doing a mock
stakeholder interview where Colleen will play the role of a data scientist and
I'll play the role of a data engineer. So let's get started. Hi, I'm Joe, and I just joined
this week as a new data engineer. I'm really excited to get started working
on data projects with you, and I thought it would be great if we could discuss what
you're working on and now I can help you. >> Yeah, absolutely. It's really great to meet you and
have you at the company. I actually just started here as
a data scientist a few months ago and it has been hectic to say the least. >> Hectic? Tell me more. Yeah, so our marketing team is asking for a real time analysis of our
product sales by region. So they want to be able to look at things
like which products customers bought and where the customers are located
themselves, amongst other things. So right now,
all of our product sales information and data is located in our production
database for our sales platform. The software engineering team doesn't want
to give me direct access because they're in a risk I might break something. So because of that, they've been
giving me a data dump once a day, which I do a manual pull on. So I see, so you're getting
the information you need, but it's a little cumbersome because
you need to download it manually. Well, I guess you could say that I'm
getting the information I need, but I'm also getting a lot
of stuff I don't need. So I'm spending a lot of my
time sifting through this data. It's about 90% of the stuff
that I don't need, and I need it stored in various CSV and
JSON files. So I need to run a series of
processing steps to extract what I need from each file,
clean it up, aggregate the stuff, and then save it in a format that I
can actually use to build my towards. >> Okay, so it sounds like you're spending
a fair amount of time processing the data before you're able to use it for
your analytics, is that right? >> Yeah, so for sure, I'm probably
spending about 80% of my time cleaning and processing the data. Oftentimes my processing scripts
crash because there are anomalies or unexpected entries in the files
provided by the software team. A few times the software team has actually
changed the format of what they're sending me. And I've only found out I when none of
my processing scripts would run and I had to refactor those things
to work with a new format. It's not uncommon for me to spend
an entire day getting the data into a format that is usable for
the dashboards. Meanwhile, like I said, the marketing team wants their
regional sales analytics in real time. And often by the time I'm pushing updates,
the information is already two days old. >> Okay, so that sounds like a pretty
painful process, I can understand that. It's been hectic for you. So in terms of being able
to deliver results faster, it sounds like one issue is that you're
only getting data dumps maybe once a day. And then also the data cleaning and
processing steps are laborious and a little unpredictable, so that might add
some time to your work, is that right? Yeah, right now I feel
like it would be hard for me to deliver faster results at
all under the circumstances. But the marketing team really
wants current metrics, not ones that are two days old. So I'm hoping you can help with that. >> Yeah, for sure. So you mentioned they
want real time updates. What are they hoping to
do with that information? >> Well, in the work we've done so
far, they've been focused on better understanding the effectiveness
of their marketing campaigns. As well as observing short and
long term trends in product sales so they can time their campaigns better. We've also been working on a
recommendation engine for the website that suggests products to customers when
they're browsing or making a purchase. Interesting. So it sounds like maybe a few
distinct use cases there. So right now you're providing
them with dashboards and a recommendation engine that
addresses some of these needs. Is that what you're doing? >> Well, yes and no. At the top level, the dashboards I'm
providing show product sales by category and region over the past 30 days in
aggregate with 30-day totals as well as timeline plots showing daily numbers. This was requested so they could see broadly what kind of trends
are happening from region to region. They can also double click into any
particular region to see a finer breakdown by individual product or on a finer time
cadence like hourly instead of daily. But like I said, the data is
typically at least two days old, so it's not showing current numbers. And then for the recommender,
I'm just doing some analysis to determine which products have been
most popular over the past week or so. And then passing those product ids to
the software team so they can then serve recommendations of a few popular products
to everyone browsing the website. So it's not really customized
to individual customers yet, just showing popular products. I've currently been working on training
a model to do personalized recommendations using a content filtering method,
but haven't deployed anything yet. >> Okay, so it sounds like for the product recommendation system you
might need more data for training. And then once you have a model that you're
actually ready to deploy, you'll need some kind of system that serves user activity
data from the sales platform to the model. And then passes the output product
recommendations back to the platform to be shown to the user as
they're browsing, is that right? >> Yes, that's the plan. So just like you might see on
any e commerce website or app, as the user is browsing or
checking out and making purchases. They will see other products recommended
based on what they've been looking at or what they put in their carta. Okay, that makes sense. And then for the dashboards
you're providing to marketing, you said that they want current data,
not data that's like two days old. Do you have a sense of what actions
marketing hopes to take based on current data that they can't do with the data
that's maybe two days older or older? >> Well, they've talked about being able
to target their ad campaigns based on current data. And I suppose that might mean looking at
what customers are doing currently in terms of purchases or
other activity on the sales platform. But I guess I'm not sure whether that
means they need to know what customers are doing right this second or within the
past hour or just more generally today and not yesterday. >> Okay, no worries. I'll see if I can follow up with the folks
on the marketing side to get a better sense of what they're hoping to do. If I can get a handle on what action
they plan to take based on the data, that'll help me zero in on exactly
how it needs to be served up and how much latency they can
tolerate in the system. >> Yeah, that makes sense. Let me know if there's anything else I
can do to help out with all of this. >> Okay, great. Well, this has been really helpful. If I've understood correctly,
then it sounds like what would really help you is if we could figure
out a way to do more direct and timely ingestion of data from
the database where sales are recorded. Then if we can figure out
a better way to automate and orchestrate the transformation and serving
of that data into the format you need for your dashboards and the recommender. Then we'd be heading in
the right direction. Does that sound correct? >> Yes, definitely. That would be a massive help. If the ingestion and processing of
the data could be handled automatically such that it's stored in
a format that I need. That would make my life a lot easier and help me focus on the thing that I'm
best at, which is analyzing data. Okay, great. >> Well, thanks, Colleen. And I think a good next step would
be to check in with the folks in the marketing team to better
understand their needs. >> Yeah, that sounds great. Thank you, Jeff. >> All right, thanks. Okay, well, that was fun. So that was an example of what an initial
requirements gathering conversation might look like now. Of course, in the real world,
a conversation like this might not be so brief or
straightforward as we portrayed here, and each situation is going to be unique. Beyond that,
there will be more conversations to have. But at this point you can already start
thinking about things like what were the main takeaways there? How might you start to parse the
information into actual requirements for the system you'll eventually build? Join me in the next video to look at the
important components of the conversation we just had and what key information you
can extract from a conversation like this.