In the previous lesson, we looked at what
it means to design good data architecture
and why it matters. I emphasize that you
need to consider the trade offs between
different design choices and build loosely coupled
flexible systems that will be able to accommodate the evolving data needs of your organization. In this lesson, I'll
focus on how to choose the right tools and technologies to build this kind
of architecture. In the field of
data engineering, there's no shortage of
options when it comes to tools and technologies
to get the job done. Quite the opposite, in fact. As data engineers, we suffer instead from an
embarrassment of riches. Whether you're considering
solutions for ingestion, storage, transformation,
or serving, you'll be faced with options,
including open source, managed open source, proprietary software services,
and much more. As you face these decisions, it's important to keep
your end goal in mind, namely delivering high
quality data products that meet the requirements
of your end users. In other words, your data
architecture is the what, the why, and the when of achieving the data
needs of the business. The tools and technologies you choose to make
that architecture, a reality or the how. At this point, you
might be thinking, well, sure, that sounds logical. Choose the tools that will
make for a successful outcome. That's great. Thanks, Joe. Well, unfortunately, there are a number of ways that
this can go wrong, and that's what we're
going to talk about in this lesson so that you're
set up for success. We'll be looking
first at location, namely the trade-offs between building your
systems on-premises, on the cloud or some
hybrid of the two. Then we'll look at
cost optimization and how you can think
about whether to build your own tools for certain things or purchase
off the shelf solutions, considering things like your
team's size and capabilities and what sorts of activities that really drive value
in your business. We'll talk about building
for the needs of today, while also having an eye towards the potential future needs
of your organization. We'll be discussing all
these things in the context of the principles of good
data architecture that you saw in the previous lesson and the undercurrents of the data engineering life
cycle that you saw last week. Join me in the next
video to get started.