Not that long ago, maybe just two decades
or so in the past. Building on premise
data systems was really your only choice for any kind of data storage
or processing needs. This was simply because
modern Cloud data platforms didn't exist yet. On-premises system is one
where the company owns and maintains the hardware and software for the
entire data stack. This means that a company is operationally responsible
for provisioning, maintaining, and updating and scaling their hardware and
the software that runs on it. Nowadays, many companies build their entire data
systems on the Cloud. With Cloud data systems, the Cloud provider,
like aws, for example, is responsible for
building and maintaining the hardware and data centers
to serve client needs. If you are building your
data systems on the Cloud, you are essentially renting the compute and storage resources
needed for your system. The nice thing about
Cloud computing and storage is that you can easily scale to meet demand or scale back down to save on
costs when you don't need it. You don't need to maintain
or provision any hardware, and you can change your mind
relatively easily about exactly what kind of tools or technologies you want
to use in your system. Well, many companies
are now choosing to build data systems
entirely on the Cloud. Other still maintain
on premises systems, or some kind of
hybrid system with some components on premises
and others on the Cloud. The momentum in the industry is definitely in
the direction of more companies choosing Cloud over on premises data systems. Or migrating from on
premises to the Cloud. This is because of all
the obvious advantages the Cloud offers in terms of
flexibility and scalability. However, there are some
companies that either choose to or are
required to keep some or all their data systems on premises due to the nature of their business or regulations or security and client
privacy concerns. As a data engineer today, it's possible that you'll work at a company that has some on premises systems
or one that is in the process of migrating from
on premises to the Cloud. In these courses,
we'll be focused exclusively on building
data systems on the Cloud. This is because for
the vast majority of business use cases today, building your data systems on the Cloud is the best choice. The industry is moving
in the direction of more Cloud and less on premises. As an aspiring data engineer, I believe your time
will be best spent learning about building
data systems on the Cloud. Join me in the next
video to learn more about another trend in
software and data engineering, the move from monolithic
to modular systems.