When you're building
systems on AWS, particularly when you're
just getting started, it can be overwhelming. There are just so many
options to choose from and different ways you can
build out solutions on AWS. So how do you know if
you're getting it right? Well, that's what the AWS Well-Architected
Framework is all about, evaluating and
improving solutions so you can get it right when
you're building on AWS. In this video, I'll
give you an overview of the Well-Architected
Framework and point you to more resources so you can use this framework to evaluate
whatever you build on AWS. Let's begin with a
little background. At AWS, we don't just provide services for building
systems in the cloud. We also work closely with thousands of customers
around the world to help them build the
best cloud solutions to support and run
their businesses. AWS solutions architects,
subject matter experts, and other AWS personnel have spent decades working directly with customers across
a wide variety of business needs and use cases, which has given them a lot of experience with doing
things the right way. From that collective experience, AWS has constructed the
Well-Architected Framework, which comprises a set
of best practices and core strategies for architecting systems
in the cloud. The AWS Well-Architected
Framework includes six key pillars:
operational excellence, security, reliability,
performance efficiency, cost optimization,
and sustainability. Here, I'll just briefly
describe each of these pillars, and you can follow the links in the resources section at the end of this week to learn
more if you're interested. The first pillar is
operational excellence. This pillar is focused on
how you can develop and run your workloads on AWS
more effectively, monitor your systems to gain insight into your operations, and continuously
improve your processes and procedures to
deliver business value. Next is the security pillar, which is focused on how
to take advantage of cloud technologies to protect your data, systems, and assets. You've already looked at the security undercurrent of the data engineering
life cycle with Joe, and the idea here is the same. You need to employ proper
tools to secure your systems, as well as encourage a culture
of security on your team. Next up is the
reliability pillar. Reliable systems are those that perform their intended
function correctly, consistently, and can recover
quickly from a failure. So this pillar is about
everything from designing for reliability to planning for failure and adapting to change. The performance efficiency
pillar is focused on taking a data-driven approach to building high performance
architectures. When it comes to your system's
performance efficiency, you'll be evaluating
the ability of a set of computing resources
to efficiently meet your system requirements, as well as how you can
maintain that efficiency as demand changes and
technologies evolve. The next pillar is
cost optimization. This one is pretty straightforward
and closely related to the points Joe made
earlier this week about embracing FinOps. Simply put, cost optimization
means building systems to deliver maximum business value at the lowest
possible price point, and AWS provides a
range of services, including the AWS Cost Explorer and Cost
Optimization Hub, where you can make
comparisons and get recommendations about how to optimize for cost
for your systems. Finally, we have the
sustainability pillar. While things like performance,
scalability, security, and cost might be top of mind when building
out data systems, it's also important to consider the environmental impact of your workloads that you're
running on the cloud. The sustainability pillar
is focused on reducing energy consumption and
increasing efficiency across all components
of your system. Now, it's important
to keep in mind that these six pillars of the
Well-Architected Framework will not provide
specific designs for you to just copy and
apply to your solutions. Instead, you can think
of them as a set of principles and
questions that will help you have productive
conversations about your existing solutions and help you design and
operate reliable, secure, efficient,
cost-effective, and sustainable
systems in the cloud. It's almost like
having access to your own personal AWS
Solutions Architect, who can help you think
through the pros and cons of different
architecture choices. As I mentioned before, you
can follow the links in the resources section at the end of this
week to learn more about each of the
pillars and explore the Well-Architected
tool that allows you to evaluate your own
architectures for potential risks and
opportunities for improvement. There are also domain-specific
applications of the Well-Architected
Framework called Lenses that you can explore. A lens is essentially
an extension of the AWS Well-Architected
Framework that focuses on a
particular area, industry, or technology stack, and provides guidance
specific to those contexts. Each lens has its own
set of questions, best practices, notes,
and improvement plan. In particular, I'd
recommend you to check out the Data
Analytics Lens, which is focused on
data-specific considerations. The Data Analytics Lens
will walk you through evaluating your data
architectures for scalability, security, performance, and cost. It can help you evaluate your
current data architectures, identify areas for improvement, and implement strategies that align with industry
best practices. Next up, it's your turn to try applying the
principles we've been talking about this week to your own data
architecture on AWS. Through the next few videos, Joe will walk you through the
lab exercise for this week, and I'll see you
again next week.