Throughout these
courses, I want you to keep in mind that
the various principles and architecture
patterns that we discussed will apply to
different scenarios. Depending on the type of
architecture and systems that you're building to support your organization's objectives. But there is one very important guiding
principle that has affected every architecture and system I've ever encountered. I want to introduce you to
what's known as Conways law. Conway's law was best described by its
author Melvin Conway, who stated that any organization that designs a
system will produce a design who structure is a copy of the organization's
communication structure. Now, that might sound like a very strained
assertion to make, but here's how it
works in practice. Imagine a company with four
different departments, sales, marketing,
finance, and operations. Now, if these departments operate in relatively
isolated silos, their communication patterns, will be isolated
and siloed as well. When it comes to building data
architectures and systems, they will inevitably build four relatively isolated
and siloed systems. In other words, sales will develop one data
system, marketing, will build another finance third and operations, yet
another system. You get the idea. If instead, the four departments in the same organization
communicate cross functionally, share ideas and collaborate
between departments, then the data systems
they build will reflect the culture of cross functional collaboration
and communication. Again, I realize this
might sound strange, but as odd as it may seem, Conways law is remarkably consistent across all
types of organizations. The main takeaway for you as a data engineer is that when
it comes to understanding, what kind of data architecture is going to work for
your organization? You first need to
pay attention to and understand the communication structure of the organization. Even say, you attempt to build a data architecture that clashes with your company's
communication structure, you're bound for trouble. If you're interested in learning
more about Conways law, I have included a link in the resources section
at the end of the week. Join me in the next video
to have a closer look at the key principles of
good data architecture.