Okay, before we get started here,
I just want to come out and say it. Regulatory compliance is probably
the most boring topic in these courses. I don't think anyone really wants
to talk about laws and regulations, especially when we could be talking
about working with data and working with cool technologies, right? So I agree, and I also feel I'd
be letting you down if I didn't spend at least some time
talking about how regulatory compliance fits into your
role as a data engineer. And this is primarily because one of the
most spectacular ways your data systems can fail is to run afoul
of regulations and cause your organization to get sued and
incur large fines. This does happen. So what kind of regulations am I
talking about with regard to data? One big regulation is
the General Data Protection regulation, or GDPR, that was enacted in
the European Union in 2018. In short, the GDPR is all about
the protection of privacy and personal data for individuals. But what constitutes personal data
under the GDPR is relatively broad, including not only personal identifiable
information, or PII, but also other information that could collectively
be used to identify an individual. To be in compliance with a GDPR, you need
to ensure that you have the appropriate consent from the individuals
you're collecting data from, as well as the ability to delete
the data in a timely manner. If an individual wants to have their
data removed from your systems now, you might be thinking,
what if my company isn't based in the EU? Or what if we don't serve
customers in the EU? Well, technically, yes, the location
of your company and your customers will at least play some part in determining
whether the regulations apply to you. However, since the enactment of the GDPR,
dozens of countries around the world, as well as individual states within
the US, have adopted similar regulations. As a data engineer, you'll be responsible
for building systems that not only comply with today's regulations,
but also those of tomorrow. And those could be new laws that
are enacted where you currently operate or regulations already in place in
the areas your company expands to. In the future. It'll be your responsibility to
keep your systems up to date, to stay in compliance with the set of
regulations that apply to your business. The smart approach is to build systems
that are in compliance with modern data protection regulations, like GDPR, even if
your local regulations are less stringent. And to build flexible, loosely coupled systems that allow you
to adapt to with regulatory changes. Apart from the location of your
company and your customers, the industry you operate in might also
come with its own set of regulations. If you work with healthcare
data in the US, for example, you'll be required to adhere to
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or the HIPAA law,
regarding sensitive patient data. Similar laws have been enacted regarding
medical data in many countries around the world. Or if you work with financial
data in your organization, you would need to adhere to the Sarbanes
Oxley act in the US or similar laws elsewhere that mandate certain financial
reporting and record keeping practices. So the main takeaway here is that
no matter where you're located in the world or what industry you're in,
there are laws and regulations that will apply to
the systems that you build. As a data engineer,
one way you can deliver value for your organization is to
avoid the lawsuits and fines that come with failing to
adhere to the necessary regulations. We won't be spending much time on
the details of regulatory compliance in the rest of these courses, but I wanted to
at least make you aware of this aspect in your role as a data engineer so you can
keep it in mind along with the other principles of good data architecture. In the next lesson, we'll look at
choosing the right technologies for your architecture. I'll see you there.