Okay, so in this video, I'm going to be playing the role of the newly hired data engineer
at an e-commerce company, and I'll be asking some questions of the chief technology officer
or CTO, played by Matt Housley, about the overall goals of the business and technology
initiatives.
Hi, Matt.
Thanks for taking the time to chat with me today.
I'm very excited to be starting at this company, and one of the things I'd like to do is get
a better understanding of the business goals and technology efforts that you're working
on.
Great to have you on board, Joe.
I like to talk to all the new hires within technology to make sure our goals are aligned.
I know that you probably won't be able to talk to me all the times you'd like to, but
it's kind of my version of walking the shop floor to see what's going on in the world.
So for the coming year and beyond, your work as a data engineer is going to play a key
role in our success, and so I'd like to explain how that's going to tie into our large
venture initiatives.
Okay.
Sounds good.
So far, our company has been relatively successful as an e-commerce platform across a limited
number of product lines.
We've done great marketing, and as one of the companies that was first in the market,
we had the first mover advantage.
The challenge, however, is that as the market evolves, we're getting a lot of smaller brands
coming up and sort of grabbing market share.
Another major concern that I have right now with technology within the company, and I'll
explain how that is.
How this ties in with the market share issues and such in a second, is that we actually
were an e-commerce platform now, but we inherited some old technology before even dot com.
And so there's concern that some of that old code running could cause outages that could
be very costly to the company and also damaging to our customer brand.
And so you're probably aware of some of the outages that have been in the news in various
ways.
And so we feel like we might have some exposure there.
So the big initiatives, again, are we're expanding market share.
We're expanding product offerings, and we're also looking to go more international.
Now, the thing to understand is that involves a lot of scale.
So fundamentally, what we're going to try to do from the software side is refactor so
that first of all, we can get rid of that old code that's kind of back in the systems
that puts us at risk and then also make everything much more scalable in the process.
Now let me ask you, like from your perspective as a data engineer, how would that affect
you?
Well, that could affect me.
Greatly.
So I could think of a number of ways.
And I know it sounds like working with legacy tools is not a lot of fun.
But I'm also really looking forward to helping modernize the systems.
Exactly.
And that's exactly the attitude that I'm looking for.
One of my major concerns with my CTO experience is that quite often we have this software,
I'll call it the software agenda.
Right.
The software data divide and the software data divide.
You probably already know about this, but the basic idea is that people write code kind
of in a vacuum and then the data engineers just have to consume whatever comes out.
And that's been a big problem for us because this legacy code generates a schema that's
very, very hard to use for analytics.
So fundamentally, as part of the team, what I want you to assist with is consulting with
the software side as we refactor our code to make sure that the output of that code
is suitable for analytics.
Right.
So it's not that we're going to be able to get away with removing all ETL, but we feel
like if we generate the data in the right way with the right schema, then it's going
to be much cleaner going into our analytics.
What tools can I expect to be working with?
That's a good question.
So part of what we want to do within this initiative as we refactor is convert more
from a batch based approach to a streaming based approach.
And so the technologies we're looking at at the moment on AWS are Kinesis, which is kind
of the Amazon native version of streaming, and then Kafka potentially as we scale up
and for certain pipelines.
Do you have experience with those?
I don't, but I took a course on data engineering and I am really excited to apply some of the
things I've learned in the labs about Kinesis and Kafka to real world scenarios.
That's great.
And I think at this stage, again, you're going to work.
You're going to work as a consultant with the software side to understand the data they're
producing and then help them to produce better quality data.
And in the meantime, you can spin up proof of concept demonstrations of these technologies,
Kinesis and Kafka, experiment with their scalability, make sure that you build really strong ground
skills in those, because I see that being one of your key responsibilities in the future
is to manage and expand our streaming capabilities.
You're going to be doing that under the direction of the head of the software team.
So I think that's going to be really important.
You're going to be doing that under the direction of the head of data, of course, but we expect
you to really take the skills that you have now and then expand those to be really strong
in this area.
Now, I know that AI is a very hot topic these days.
Does the company have any goals with respect to machine learning or AI?
Okay.
Another one of our major goals within our technology initiatives is improving customer
retention.
And so the core software refactor that I mentioned will help to support that because it means
a more responsive website and less downtime.
Avoiding downtime in general, so customers are pleased with the experience.
In addition, we're working on a recommendation engine.
And so your part in this, working within the data engineering team, is going to be developing
data pipelines that feed that recommendation engine.
And so this involves essentially looking at our data within our product taxonomy, but
also looking at how customers behave on the site.
So looking at the clickstream, looking at order behavior, and working with the data science,
scientists to engineer the pipelines that support that process.
That sounds great.
It's really great to have you on board.
I'm excited to work with you and hopefully we'll get to connect in the future as these
initiatives progress.
Well, thanks.
