Now you've got some
perspective on the high level business
goals for the company, and it's time to get back to gathering requirements
based on stakeholder needs. Back in the first
week of this course, you learned from the
data scientists that the marketing team has
two primary requests. One around delivering dashboards with metrics on product sales, and another regarding a
product recommendation system. These two initiatives are in line with the larger
business goals of launching new products by better understanding
market trends, and improving customer retention
by recommending products that are more likely to align
with their preferences. In this video, we're going
to have a conversation with a product marketing
manager to get more details on their needs and expectations
for these projects. In week one, we looked at four key elements in any
requirements gathering process. First, you want to learn
about any system or solution that currently exists to deliver data to
your stakeholders, and then you want to understand any problems with this
existing system or the data. Next, you want to understand what actions your stakeholder plans to take with the data
you serve them, and finally, you want to identify other
stakeholders to speak with or conversations you
need to have to gather any missing information. Make sure you pay attention to these elements as you watch
the conversation unfold. Hi, Colleen. I'm Joe, the new data engineer. It's been hired at the
company to build things. Hi, Joe. I'm so
excited to have here. Well, awesome.
Great to meet you. I've been talking to
various people here at the company to try
to better understand the data needs and
I'm trying to put together a set of
requirements for the data systems I'm
going to be working on. Definitely, we've
been thinking a lot lately about how we can
use our data to make more informed
decisions and drive the metrics that we care
about on the marketing team, and we're really looking forward to having
you work on this. Okay, great. In my conversation with the data
scientists on our team, I learned that they've been working on a couple of
initiatives with you. On around some dashboards for product sales Matrix and another around a product recommendation
engine, is that right? That's correct. And I
would say that both of these initiatives are
in a prototype state, and we'd like to work with
you on proving both of those. Okay. Sounds good. Could you
first tell me more about the current state
of the systems so I can get a better idea
of where we're at now. For sure. With regards
to the dashboards, what we have now is essentially
what we want in terms of how the various metrics
and trends are displayed. It's just that there's a lag of usually a couple of
days between when the data is recorded
for a new sale and when we can actually
see it in the dashboards. So our data scientist
has created a nice set of dashboards
where we can see product sales by category and region with time plots
showing daily numbers. This helps us broadly
see what kinds of trends are happening
from region to region. We can also double click into any particular region
to see the details by individual product or on a more granular time cadence like hourly instead of daily. This is all great, but we
want to see all of this stuff in real time rather than when the data is
already two day. I see. So it sounds like the dashboards might
already be delivering some value when it comes to allowing you to monitor
long term trends, but there are things
you'd like to do with that that
might require more recent data, is that correct? That's right. In addition to monitoring long term metrics, we'd like to be able
to see in real time when a particular
product is trending. So we can try to capture
that momentum and push out more targeted
promotional campaigns, focusing on a specific
region and product. Right now, we occasionally see really interesting
regional spikes in demand for particular products, and we would like to know
about that when it's actually happening rather than when
the demand has subsided. Got it. Okay. So tell me more
about these demand spikes. What do they look like, and how long do they typically last? Sure. So what we
see in many cases, is that demand rises sharply over a span of a
few hours or so, and then eventually
drops off again, sometimes after a day or two, but sometimes more quickly
in just a few hours. Okay, I see. If I'm
understanding correctly, what you would like to be
able to do is observe one of these spikes while
it's happening so that you can take action
based of information. That's right. If we
see sales ticking up steadily for two or
three hours in a row, we could have a plan
in place to take immediate action and push
out target eight promotions. Okay, great. So if, for example, the data in your dashboards was reflecting product sales from
just one hour in the past, rather than two
days in the past, would you be well
positioned to take action? Yes. That would be great
if we were looking at data that was
only an hour old. Sounds good. I
think I understand more or less what you
need for the dashboards. I'd like to learn more
about what you're interested in doing with
the recommender system. Do you have something
already working for that? Well sort of. We asked the data scientists
to determine what the most popular products from the previous
week of sales are. And then the platform
team just serves those as recommendations
to everyone at checkout. So it's more like a
popular product of the week thing than any
personalized recommendation. I see. You have a pretty basic recommender
up and running, but it's not personalized
to the customer, and sounds like what
you'd like is maybe something that considers a
customer's purchase history, as well as what they've got in their car to
check out to make some customized recommendation,
is that correct? Yes, that's exactly
right. Just like what you see on a lot of other E commerce
platforms where either while they're
shopping or they're in the checkout process. You see the recommendations for products you might
be interested in. Okay, great. I think
it's all I need to know about the recommender
for now, at least. And this conversation has
been really helpful for me to understand what you
need when it comes to the dashboards and the
recommendation system. I'm sure I'll have
more questions for you as we get started building
out these solutions, and I'll let you
know as soon as I got something that we
can start testing. Awesome. Thank you. I
really look forward to seeing what you build and feel free to reach out any time. Okay, so that was
an example of how a conversation might
go between you, the data engineer, and a product marketing manager
about what they need. Join me in the next
video to dive into this conversation to unpack
the system requirements.