In the previous video,
we had a conversation with the marketing department
about their needs. In some ways, this
conversation included a confirmation of the things you already learned from
the data scientist. But now with more details on exactly what the
end users needs are. In this video, we'll go over
what we learned and take a look at starting to document the requirements
you've gathered. The way I like to document
requirements is using the hierarchy that we looked
at in a previous video. This way, it's easy to visualize the connections from system requirements here at the bottom, all the way up to the high
level business schools. Right here at the
top, I can start by writing down the business
schools as I understand them. In this case, the business schools that we
learned about that the company aims to continue
on their growth trajectory, throw a focus on customer
retention and loyalty, as well as an expansion to new markets and new
product offerings. In these efforts, they are aspiring to be data driven
in their decision making. Underneath the business goals, we can now add
stakeholder needs. For the moment, I'll just
consider the data scientist and the product marketing
manager together here as the stakeholders
that we've talked to so far. At this point, we know
they need two main things, some analytics dashboards
and a recommender system. Let's first take a look at
the analytics dashboards. Both the data scientists and the product marketing
manager stated they need "real time" or "current data" presented
in the dashboards. Through digging a
little deeper and asking what action they
plan to take with the data, we learned that the
marketing team would like to be aware when
demand spikes occur. For particular
products so they can react to additional
promotional campaigns. Given that the duration of these demand spikes
is expected to last from several hours
to one or two days, it looks like hourly
dashboard updates would be sufficient and
marketing confirmed, and this would serve
their needs just fine. So there you have a
stakeholder need, and you might capture the related functional
requirement for the data system like this. The data system needs to serve transformed data that is
no more than one hour old. When it comes to the
recommender system, it sounds like the current
solution is just to display a few popular products on the page when someone
is checking out. What the marketing team
would like to have instead is a system
that provides product recommendations that are customized based on someone's browsing
or purchase history, as well as what they have
in their card at checkout. There you have another
stakeholder need, and when it comes to a
functional requirement for your data system
to serve that need, you could write down something like the system first
needs to provide the appropriate
training data for the development of the
recommender model. Then be able to
ingest, transform, and serve user data to the
trained recommender model, and then return
the model outputs perhaps in the form
of product IDs back to the sales platform. Now, I'd like to
pause for a moment and highlight the
fact that translating stakeholder needs into
functional requirements for your system can
be a little tricky, as you can see here with
the analytics dashboard, what the marketing team actually needs are the
dashboards themselves, and so it might be
tempting to write down some details about the
dashboard features or metrics to be displayed. But really building the
dashboard is going to be the responsibility
of the data scientists. To provide those
features and metrics, the data scientist
needs access to data that is no more
than an hour old. When it comes to
your data system, as long as you're able
to serve data that the data scientist needs
in a timely manner, then your system is achieving this
functional requirement. For the recommender system, the marketing team needs to make customized product
recommendations. To do that, there will be multiple people and
teams involved. The data scientists will need to train and deploy a
recommender model, and the platform team will
need to be able to receive product recommendations
from the model to display on the platform. When it comes to
your data system, you'll need to provide
training data to the data scientists
to development model, then you need to be able to pass customer data from
the platform to the model and then send the model outputs
back to the platform. Here we have documented one functional requirement for each of these data systems. In practice, you could have many functional requirements
for any given system as well as more detail than we've listed here for each
functional requirement. To keep things simple
for now, though, let's leave it at just these
two functional requirements. This is how you might
get started with documenting your
functional requirements. Coming soon, we'll also get into documenting non
functional requirements. But before doing that, we're going to have some more
stakeholder conversations. Join me in the next video
for a conversation with the software engineer who
maintains a sales platform, which is the source system
you'll be ingesting data from.