Most Cloud data storage services offer different storage tiers. You can choose from
depending on your costs, access speed, access frequency, and compliance requirements. When choosing a storage tier, I recommend you
consider the hot, warm and cold data
classification method that's based on how frequently data is
accessed and used. On one end of the spectrum,
you have hot data, which is data that's accessed frequently and requires
fast retrieval times. For example, in a product
recommendation application, you need to frequently access the product catalog and the purchase history
of your users. You might also want to store the results of frequently
run queries in a cache so that you can quickly serve customers with
product recommendations. To serve fast read access, you typically want to store
hot data in systems that utilize high performance
storage mediums like SSD and memory. The storage cost for hot data is typically more expensive, but the retrieval time and compute resources required
to access the data is relatively low because
you store data in a way that optimizes
for fast access. Warm data is accessed less
frequently than hot data, but still needs to be
readily available. For example, this could be data that's used for
regular reports and analysis that don't need to
be updated in real time. You typically want
to store warm data in lower cost storage systems that utilize slower
magnetic disks or hybrid storage systems. Compared to hot data, the storage costs for
warm data is lower, but it typically
takes more time and compute resources to
retrieve the data. Then on the other
end of the spectrum, you have cold data. This is data that's rarely accessed and is often archived. For example, you might decide to archive project documentation or keep old emails for
compliance purposes. You want to store cold data in the most cost
effective storage tier that's built on low
cost magnetic disks. So the storage cost for cold data is the
most inexpensive, but compared to warm data, it'll take you
longer and require more compute resources
to retrieve this data. In general, the storage
price goes down as you move from high performing
storage with fast access, to lower performing storage
with slower access. If you store all of your
data in hot storage, you'll be able to access
your data very quickly, but at a tremendous
storage price. If you store all your
data in cold storage, then you'll save
on storage costs, but it'll be at the expense of long retrieval times and high compute required
for data access. You'll typically want to
choose a combination of storage tiers for your
various storage needs. As an example, when
storing data in Amazon S3, you might store your
frequently accessed hot data for real time
transactions in what's called the S3 express one zone
or the S3 standard tiers. You might store warm
data that needs to be accessed say weekly
or monthly for finetuning a product
recommendation system in the S3 Standard
infrequent access or S3 one zone infrequent
access tiers. Finally, you want to archive historical cold data in one
of the S3 glacier tiers. When designing your
storage solutions, aside from access frequency, you also want to
consider things like the scalability and durability
of your storage solutions. In the next video, we'll dive deeper into distributed
storage systems and discuss the trade
offs associated with that architecture.
I'll see you there.