Last week we looked at the details
of the raw ingredients of storage. You saw how, as a data engineer,
understanding the characteristics, performance, and cost of the different
storage mediums and processes. Can help you better evaluate tradeoffs
in your storage solution decisions. Then we explored different storage
systems, including object storage and common types of databases. This week,
we'll move up in the storage hierarchy and explore different storage abstractions. We'll start by looking at the data
warehouse architecture and the transformative shift towards
modern cloud data warehouses. We'll then dive into the rise of data
lakes as a response to the growing storage needs in terms of data volume,
data types, and use cases. We'll also examine the challenges
associated with this architecture. And finally, we'll look at
the data Lakehouse architecture, which aims to combine the advantages
of both data warehouses and data lakes. I've set up this week as a sort of journey
through the history of data storage abstractions. As we move through each paradigm,
you will consider the pros, cons, and possible use cases for each one. The goal here is to give you enough of an
understanding behind each architecture so you can choose the most appropriate
storage solution based on your use case. In this week's lab exercises,
you'll use AWS glue and Athena for efficient data retrieval in a data lake. Then you'll get a chance to experiment
with creating a data lake house with something called a medallion architecture
using AWS, lake formation and Apache iceberg tables. Before we get into the details of each
of the storage abstraction paradigms, I want to give you the opportunity
to hear from Bill Inman. Who is widely recognized as
the father of the data warehouse and one of the most knowledgeable
people in the field of data. The next video is optional, and if you'd
rather jump right into the details of data warehouse architecture,
you can feel free to skip ahead. But otherwise enjoy the upcoming
conversation with Bill Inman. I'll see you after that to dive
deeper into data warehouses.